---
title: sample_bsdf
order: 19
---
`void  sample_bsdf(bsdf F, vector viewer_u, vector &dir, vector &eval, int &type, float sx, float sy, ...)`

`void  sample_bsdf(bsdf F, vector viewer_u, vector &dir, vector &eval, int &type, float sx, float sy, int mask, ...)`

`void  sample_bsdf(bsdf F, vector viewer_u, vector &dir, vector &eval, float &pdf, int &type, float sx, float sy, ...)`

`void  sample_bsdf(bsdf F, vector viewer_u, vector &dir, vector &eval, float &pdf, int &type, float sx, float sy, int mask, ...)`

`void  sample_bsdf(bsdf b, vector viewer_u, vector normal_v, int &flags, vector &dir, vector &eval, float &pdf, int &type, float sx, float sy, int mask, ...)`

Show/hide arguments

`F`

The BSDF to sample.

`viewer_u`

The U vector (input viewer direction).

`normal_v`

The V vector (input surface normal).

`&flags`

A bitfield of flags for the BSDF, defined in `pbr.h`. The function may set flags like `PBR_BSDF_REVERSE` or `PBR_BSDF_O_EVENT_EXIT`.

`&dir`

The function overwrites this variable with the outgoing ray direction.

`&eval`

The function overwrites this variable with the outgoing ray color, scaled by albedo.

This is not the same as the evaluated vector returned by the `eval_bsdf` operation. Here, `&eval` will not vary with the outgoing sample direction.

`&pdf`

The function overwrites this variable with the computed PDF of the BSDF.

`&type`

In a compound BSDF, this returns the bounce type that was sampled.

See [bouncemask](bouncemask.html) for information on component label bitmasks.

`sx` and `sy`

Random values, such as generated by [nextsample](nextsample.html). Different values of `sx` and `sy` represent different random directions to sample.

`&eval`

Overwritten with the color, scaled by albedo, of the sampled component.

`&pdf`

The sampling pdf for the sampled component.

`bounces`

A bitmask representing bounce types allowed.

The `sample_bsdf` function passes keyword arguments to the BSDF being
evaluated. For custom BSDFs these keyword arguments are bound to shader
arguments (e.g. indicating whether the BSDF is being evaluated for direct or
indirect illumination). It’s also possible for a BSDF to pass information back
to `sample_bsdf`. To indicate that a keyword argument value should be imported
from the BSDF prefix the keyword with “import:”. For example:
Examples

## examples

```vex
sample_bsdf(F, inI, outI, eval, type, sx, sy,
    "direct", 0,                        // Specify indirect illumination
    "import:sssmfp", sssmfp,        // Read the exported sssmfp parameter
    ...
);

```
